Improve README so it's more useful to developers (#29)
CrowdStrike/foundry-sample-scalable-rtr: README.md

preconfigured capabilities aligned to its business purpose. Deploy this app from the Templates page with a single click in the Foundry UI, or 
create an app from this template using the CLI.

> Please complete the Foundry Quickstart before deploying this sample. You can find it in Falcon under **Foundry** > **Learn** ([US-1](https://falcon.crowdstrike.com/foundry/learn), [US-2](https://falcon.us-2.crowdstrike.com/foundry/learn), [EU](https://falcon.eu-1.crowdstrike.com/foundry/learn)). 

Author: ```suggestion
Please complete the Foundry Quickstart before deploying this sample. You can find it in Falcon under **Foundry** > **Learn** ([US-1](https://falcon.crowdstrike.com/foundry/learn) | [US-2](https://falcon.us-2.crowdstrike.com/foundry/learn) | [EU](https://falcon.eu-1.crowdstrike.com/foundry/learn)). 
```

> * use of UI components and extensions

Author: Please change line 17 to say "by targeting specific hosts"

* use of functions

## Prerequisites

> * Foundry CLI (instructions below)

Author: Both @rlucha-crowdstrike and I started working at CrowdStrike recently. We both stumbled upon this sample and struggled because we couldn't find instructions for installing the Foundry CLI. That's the reason I added instructions for installing the CLI. The Foundry Quickstart does have these same instructions, but I feel it's useful to make them public as well. Personally, I found the Quickstart about a week after I found this sample.

> * Foundry CLI (instructions below)

Reviewer: OK that's fair! This might all be easier once the main docs are publicly available.

> * Foundry CLI (instructions below)

Author: FWIW, we did already merge the Foundry CLI instructions in https://github.com/CrowdStrike/foundry-sample-scalable-rtr/pull/25. I didn't know there was an effort to make the main docs public. That would solve a lot of problems, IMHO! Do you know what the schedule is for this effort?

> * Foundry CLI (instructions below)

Reviewer: unfortunately it's a long ways off... like multiple quarters :-(

> * Go v1.21+ (needed if modifying functions). See https://go.dev/learn/ for instructions to install.

Author: ```suggestion
* Go v1.21+ (needed if modifying the app's functions). See https://go.dev/learn for instructions to install.
```

> * Go v1.21+ (needed if modifying functions). See https://go.dev/learn/ for instructions to install.

Author: See suggestion below.

> * YARN (needed if modifying UI). See https://yarnpkg.com/getting-started for instructions to install.

Author: ```suggestion
* YARN (needed if modifying the app's UI). See https://yarnpkg.com/getting-started for instructions to install.
```

> * YARN (needed if modifying UI). See https://yarnpkg.com/getting-started for instructions to install.

Author: See suggestion below.

Run `foundry version` to verify it's installed correctly.

## Getting Started

Clone this sample to your local system, or [download as a zip file](https://github.com/CrowdStrike/foundry-sample-scalable-rtr/archive/refs/heads/main.zip).

```shell

> git clone https://github.com/mraible/foundry-sample-scalable-rtr

Author: Good catch! This should be CrowdStrike. 
```suggestion
git clone https://github.com/CrowdStrike/foundry-sample-scalable-rtr
```

cd foundry-sample-scalable-rtr
```

> Log in to your Foundry instance:

Author: I think the `foundry login` command is named appropriately since it does log you in and configure the CLI to talk to a Foundry instance. Most of the CLIs I've worked with in the past use the same command. Both the Auth0 CLI and Okta CLI operate like this.

As a developer, what I found really useful is knowing the profiles are stored in `~/.config/foundry/configuration.yml` so I could manually edit them.

> Log in to your Foundry instance:

Author: I'm not certain, but I believe some sample apps don't require all permissions. I agree it might be less friction to tell everyone to select all the permissions, but I've noticed that sometimes the option is disabled. If we tell people to select an option that is unavailable to them, it might cause even more confusion. 

The reason I added this in here is because I experienced issues when installing this sample. In fact, I still haven't succeeded in deploying it and adding data to it. I plan to try again in the near future.

> Log in to your Foundry instance:

Reviewer: Yah I suspect you're right that the various sample apps require different permissions. And I wasn't suggesting we tell users to add all the available permissions for all the sample apps - just that they can use an existing CLI profile and add the needed permissions to it if required. But maybe I'm making a faulty assumption here, that app devs would use only a single CLI profile per CID.

> Log in to your Foundry instance:

Reviewer: well that's good cuz I'm sure we're not renaming the command! lol.

btw what do you mean by a `Foundry instance`? Wondering whether the docs already have a word for the same concept (but very possibly not).

That info about manually editing the config file should be doc'd - would you mind logging a PLATFORMPG docs task for that?

> Log in to your Foundry instance:

Author: Foundry instance = the cloud you're deploying to (US-1, US-2, or EU). Maybe this should be simplified to "Log in to Foundry:". I'll enter an issue for documenting how to edit the config file.

> Log in to your Foundry instance:

Reviewer: ah OK, agreed on simplifying to "log in to Foundry"

```shell
foundry login
```

Select the following permissions:

- [x] Run RTR Scripts
- [x] Run, execute, and test Workflows
- [x] Run, execute, and test API integrations
- [x] Run, execute, and test LogScale queries
- [ ] (optional) Generate mock data to test your app

> Deploy the app to Foundry:

Author: ```suggestion
Deploy the app:
```
Remove "to Foundry" since it's already stated above for log in.

> Deploy it to Foundry:

Reviewer: Not sure about "to Foundry", since that's not totally clear - maybe just leave it as `Deploy the app`?

Author: To Foundry makes sense to me, but I'm probably biased based on my experience of deploying "to" many things in my career.

Reviewer: got it, I'm OK with it.

> Deploy it to Foundry:

Author: ```suggestion
Deploy the app to Foundry:
```

```shell
foundry apps deploy
```

> [!TIP]
> If you get an error that the name already exists, change the name to something unique to your CID in `manifest.yml`.

> Once the deployment has finished, release the app using the three-dot menu on the right. Next, go to **Foundry** > **App catalog**, find your app, and install it.

Author: @hjabbott It seems like "three-dot menu on the right" might not be accessible. Would you happen to have a suggestion for improving this sentence?

Reviewer: Great question - however, given that there's an MI underway to change the UI for the app lifecycle flow (Simplified Wayfinding), it would be better to future-proof by removing detailed UI instructions from this readme. The Deploy/Release/Install flow will soon be even more obvious in the UI than it is now.

It also just occurred to me that the readme suddenly jumps from the CLI to the UI without explicitly stating this. Do we want to keep users on the CLI in these readmes, or state that deployment errors aren't shown on the CLI so it's better to continue in the UI?

I realize I've been reviewing your changes bit by bit instead of reading the whole readme, and I need to take some time to review the whole file.

Author: > The Deploy/Release/Install flow will soon be even more obvious in the UI than it is now.

That's good to know. I feel like it's kind of painful now because you to deploy and enter release notes. Then, you have to release it and you're often entering the same values for change type and release notes. One thought I had was to auto-populate the release notes from the last deployment to simplify things for the user. 

In my experience, using the CLI is best because its commands never change, whereas a UI might change navigation and all instructions become invalid. This happened to me at Okta and we had to update over 200 blog posts. 

> Do we want to keep users on the CLI in these readmes, or state that deployment errors aren't shown on the CLI so it's better to continue in the UI?

It seems to me like you have to use the UI to do a release and install. Because of this conversation, I discovered there is a `foundry apps release` command. It doesn't look like there's a `foundry apps install` command. 

The reason I added instructions on how to find the app is because I myself couldn't find it when I first deployed an app. Yesterday, I noticed an "Open App" button in the success dialog after installing it. I found this very useful because I didn't even know a "Custom Apps" menu existing until last week. 

> I realize I've been reviewing your changes bit by bit instead of reading the whole readme, and I need to take some time to review the whole file.

You can see the whole file by going to my forked repo: 

https://github.com/mraible/foundry-sample-scalable-rtr/tree/readme-improvements#readme

Go to **Custom apps**. You should see your app listed and be able to enter a job. After the job executes, you'll receive an email with the execution information.

> ## Basic information

Author: ```suggestion
## About this sample app
```

> Then, open the main menu in the top left and go to **Custom Apps**. You should see your app listed and be able to enter a job. After the job executes, you'll receive an email with the execution information.

Reviewer: For accessibility, we avoid using directional words like "top left" - we can just omit the first part and say `Go to **Custom apps**` (note the lowercase "apps")

Author: Please see suggested modification below. I'm happy to change it to Go, Navigate just seems a bit more professional.

Reviewer: aha, I should point you to our word list! e.g. https://wiki.cs.sys/display/UX/navigate

Author: I like the preciseness of this word list! I've updated to use Go to.

> Then, open the main menu in the top left and go to **Custom Apps**. You should see your app listed and be able to enter a job. After the job executes, you'll receive an email with the execution information.

Author: ```suggestion
Navigate to **Custom apps**. You should see your app listed and be able to enter a job. After the job executes, you'll receive an email with the execution information.
```

> ## Basic information

Reviewer: How about `About this app` instead of this somewhat vague heading?

Author: I'm OK with this change. This was an original header that I didn't modify. My only question is which is better:

- About this app
- About this sample 
- About this sample app

Reviewer: got it, I wasn't involved with the original structure either - I like "About this sample app"

    * `Check_if_Registry_key_Value_Exist.yml`: Workflow to invoke the `Check_Registry_Exist` RTR script against a collection of hosts.  Results are written to LogScale.
    * `Notify_status.yml`: Workflow which notifies the `job_history` function to report results of the `Check_if_files_or_registry_key_exist` and `Check_if_Registry_key_Value_Exist.yml`.

> ## Running, deploying and installing Custom Apps

Reviewer: What do you think about focusing this section on sample apps, rather than custom apps? In which case we could keep the final bullet, link to the editing apps docs (either https://falcon.crowdstrike.com/documentation/page/fb88e442/view-and-manage-apps or https://falcon.crowdstrike.com/documentation/page/fb88e442/view-and-manage-apps#sb0b98b4 - there's not really a good spot to link to), and maybe mention the App templates page - and remove the other general links.

Author: There are a couple of things I didn't like about this section before I changed it:

1. The links have the same text over and over for the different environments. This didn't look great IMO, so I trimmed it down to just the environments. I wish there was only one link for each resource rather than having to link to each environment, but I'm not sure this is something we can change. 
2. The intro says "detailed info about running, deploying and installing this app in your CID" when the links go to generic documentation about deploy an app, not **this** app. That's why I changed it from "this app" to "custom apps". 

To be honest, I'm not sure this section is helpful because most folks will probably want to just get the app deployed rather than wander through documentation. A CTA (Call to Action) after getting the app deployed might be more useful.

Reviewer: agreed on the overall lack of helpfulness of this section - we don't have much documentation on sample apps specifically, and linking to general docs is likely confusing.

And what you've done with reducing the text to the environment names is also what Support does when sending release note emails, so I think that technique works well. Unfortunately I think providing all 3 links is mandatory - so let's reduce the noise by just providing 1 or 2 targeted links, and then the link to the Foundry doc category.

Author: I changed it to show three links, but would be happy to reduce it to two.

Reviewer: After some sleep, I'm inclined to ditch this entire section.

Reviewer: yes, thanks for confirming!

For detailed info about running, deploying and installing custom apps in your CID, see the Falcon Foundry product documentation:

> * Overview and setup: [US-1](https://falcon.crowdstrike.com/documentation/page/f5f7cd69/falcon-console-user-interface-capabilities), [US-2](https://falcon.us-2.crowdstrike.com/documentation/page/f5f7cd69/falcon-console-user-interface-capabilities), [EU](https://falcon.eu-1.crowdstrike.com/documentation/page/f5f7cd69/falcon-console-user-interface-capabilities)
> * Deploy an app: [US-1](https://falcon.crowdstrike.com/documentation/page/ofd46a1c/deploy-an-app), [US-2](https://falcon.us-2.crowdstrike.com/documentation/page/ofd46a1c/deploy-an-app), [EU](https://falcon.eu-1.crowdstrike.com/documentation/page/ofd46a1c/deploy-an-app)
> * Create a new app using this app as template: [US-1](https://falcon.crowdstrike.com/documentation/page/l159717b/create-an-app#c4378b86), [US-2](https://falcon.us-2.crowdstrike.com/documentation/page/l159717b/create-an-app#c4378b86), [EU](https://falcon.eu-1.crowdstrike.com/documentation/page/l159717b/create-an-app#c4378b86)
> * Run an app in development mode after deployment: [US-1](https://falcon.crowdstrike.com/documentation/page/fb88e442/view-and-manage-apps#d5175ae2), [US-2](https://falcon.us-2.crowdstrike.com/documentation/page/fb88e442/view-and-manage-apps#d5175ae2), [EU](https://falcon.eu-1.crowdstrike.com/documentation/page/fb88e442/view-and-manage-apps#d5175ae2)
> * Work with the Foundry capabilities of an app: [US-1](https://falcon.crowdstrike.com/documentation/category/u0daabab/app-capabilities), [US-2](https://falcon.us-2.crowdstrike.com/documentation/category/u0daabab/app-capabilities), [EU](https://falcon.eu-1.crowdstrike.com/documentation/category/u0daabab/app-capabilities)

Author: ```suggestion
* Overview and setup: [US-1](https://falcon.crowdstrike.com/documentation/page/f5f7cd69/falcon-console-user-interface-capabilities) | [US-2](https://falcon.us-2.crowdstrike.com/documentation/page/f5f7cd69/falcon-console-user-interface-capabilities) | [EU](https://falcon.eu-1.crowdstrike.com/documentation/page/f5f7cd69/falcon-console-user-interface-capabilities)
* Deploy an app: [US-1](https://falcon.crowdstrike.com/documentation/page/ofd46a1c/deploy-an-app) | [US-2](https://falcon.us-2.crowdstrike.com/documentation/page/ofd46a1c/deploy-an-app) | [EU](https://falcon.eu-1.crowdstrike.com/documentation/page/ofd46a1c/deploy-an-app)
* Create a new app using this app as template: [US-1](https://falcon.crowdstrike.com/documentation/page/l159717b/create-an-app#c4378b86) | [US-2](https://falcon.us-2.crowdstrike.com/documentation/page/l159717b/create-an-app#c4378b86) | [EU](https://falcon.eu-1.crowdstrike.com/documentation/page/l159717b/create-an-app#c4378b86)
```

## Foundry resources

> See our product documentation: [US-1](https://falcon.crowdstrike.com/documentation/category/c3d64B8e/falcon-foundry), [US-2](https://falcon.us-2.crowdstrike.com/documentation/category/c3d64B8e/falcon-foundry), [EU1](https://falcon.eu-1.crowdstrike.com/documentation/category/c3d64B8e/falcon-foundry)

Reviewer: Add a link to the Foundry Learn page too?

Author: That's a good idea. Eventually, we might want to link to the Tech Hub and filter by Foundry too. 

Should I add a line similar to the one above that says "See our learning resources: US-1, US-2, EU"? or would it be better to inline it? 

> See our product documentation (US-1, US-2, EU) and Foundry learning resources (US-1, US-2, EU) for more information.

Reviewer: Our style generally prefers bulleted lists so I'd suggest 2 bullets right under the section header with no intro text, in the same style as the release emails:

- Foundry documentation US-1 | US-2 | EU
- Foundry learning resources US-1 | US-2 | EU

and then you'll be able to add more resources whenever they're ready, with no rewording necessary.

Author: I haven't seen a release email. Is it possible to forward an example or link to one? I'm curious to know if there's a colon before the regions with links.

Reviewer: Forwarded! Somewhat oddly, there isn't a colon. But adding one would be OK :-)

Author: Done!

> See our product documentation: [US-1](https://falcon.crowdstrike.com/documentation/category/c3d64B8e/falcon-foundry), [US-2](https://falcon.us-2.crowdstrike.com/documentation/category/c3d64B8e/falcon-foundry), [EU1](https://falcon.eu-1.crowdstrike.com/documentation/category/c3d64B8e/falcon-foundry)

Author: ```suggestion
- Foundry documentation: [US-1](https://falcon.crowdstrike.com/documentation/category/c3d64B8e/falcon-foundry) | [US-2](https://falcon.us-2.crowdstrike.com/documentation/category/c3d64B8e/falcon-foundry) | [EU](https://falcon.eu-1.crowdstrike.com/documentation/category/c3d64B8e/falcon-foundry)
Foundry learning resources: [US-1](https://falcon.crowdstrike.com/foundry/learn) | [US-2](https://falcon.us-2.crowdstrike.com/foundry/learn) | [EU](https://falcon.eu-1.crowdstrike.com/foundry/learn)
```

* Run an app in development mode after deployment: [US-1](https://falcon.crowdstrike.com/documentation/page/fb88e442/view-and-manage-apps#d5175ae2), [US-2](https://falcon.us-2.crowdstrike.com/documentation/page/fb88e442/view-and-manage-apps#d5175ae2), [EU](https://falcon.eu-1.crowdstrike.com/documentation/page/fb88e442/view-and-manage-apps#d5175ae2)
* Work with the Foundry capabilities of an app: [US-1](https://falcon.crowdstrike.com/documentation/category/u0daabab/app-capabilities), [US-2](https://falcon.us-2.crowdstrike.com/documentation/category/u0daabab/app-capabilities), [EU](https://falcon.eu-1.crowdstrike.com/documentation/category/u0daabab/app-capabilities)

## Foundry resources

- Foundry documentation: [US-1](https://falcon.crowdstrike.com/documentation/category/c3d64B8e/falcon-foundry) | [US-2](https://falcon.us-2.crowdstrike.com/documentation/category/c3d64B8e/falcon-foundry) | [EU](https://falcon.eu-1.crowdstrike.com/documentation/category/c3d64B8e/falcon-foundry)

> Foundry learning resources: [US-1](https://falcon.crowdstrike.com/foundry/learn) | [US-2](https://falcon.us-2.crowdstrike.com/foundry/learn) | [EU](https://falcon.eu-1.crowdstrike.com/foundry/learn)

Author: ```suggestion
- Foundry learning resources: [US-1](https://falcon.crowdstrike.com/foundry/learn) | [US-2](https://falcon.us-2.crowdstrike.com/foundry/learn) | [EU](https://falcon.eu-1.crowdstrike.com/foundry/learn)
```
